This loop starts the same way as the Pink & Blue Loops. Follow the road out of the parking lot and turn right onto Wawayanda Road (please stay on the crushed gravel sidewalk). You’ll follow Wawayanda Road until you see a dirt road to the left - this is Old Wawayanda Road. Follow Old Wawayanda Road for 0.5 miles then make a hard left onto the unmarked “Old AT” (if you hit the AT, you missed the turn!). Follow the Old AT to the end and then turn left on the blue blazed Iron Mountain Trail. You’ll follow Iron Mountain for less than a mile before turning right on an unmarked trail. This trail will take you to the Auxiliary Parking Lot; that’s where the short punch climb is; right before you get to the parking lot! Cut across the parking lot and continue straight on the orange-blazed Lake Loop (do not turn right on orange). This 0.10  mi stretch is the only spot you’ll have cross-traffic. Bear right towards the lake to go in front of the Bath House and loop back around to Squatch HQ. 

Start the same way as Checkered and Pink. Turn left at the end of the parking lot towards the Auxiliary Gate. When you reach the gate, turn left and then make a quick right onto the Orange blazed Lake Loop. You’ll follow the Lake Loop 2.2 miles to the southern tip of Wawayanda Lake. The Lake Loop has rolling hills and some technical spots, specifically the 0.8 mile section that parallels the Boulder Garden Trail. Take your time through this 0.8 mile section as there are plenty of rocks. After 2.2 miles, the Lake Loop bears right to continue down the east side of the lake; you’ll continue south and onto the Pump House orange/green blazed trail. In 0.6 miles, you’ll turn left on Cherry Ridge Trail, a crushed gravel doublewide mellow trail. Follow Cherry Ridge for 0.9 miles and then turn left onto the yellow blazed Lauren Pond Trail. Laurel Pond has some rolling climbs before descending to the northern tip of Wawayanda Lake. When you reach the end of the Laurel Pond Trail, turn left to get back on the orange-blazed Lake Loop to return to Squatch HQ. 

 and turn right onto Wawayanda Road (please stay on the crushed gravel sidewalk). You’ll follow Wawayanda Road for 0.7 miles and then make a hard right at the gravel parking lot for the Historic Furnace. Go through the parking lot and continue onto the crushed gravel road towards the Historic Furnace. The Historic Furnace will be on your right in 0.5 miles. Turn left at the Furnace to go through the campground. You are now on the yellow-blazed Double Pond Trail. Follow Double Pond for 0.9 miles and then turn right on the blue-blazed Cedar Swamp Trail. This 1.45 mile long singletrack trail is one of the most beautiful trails at Wawayanda. You’ll meander through gorgeous rhododendrons and traverse a wood boardwalk section through Wawayanda Swamp. The boardwalk section will feel long! When you enter the rhododendrons, be mindful of your head clearance; taller Squatchers will need to duck down in some parts! After Cedar Swamp Trail ends, you’ll bear right onto the green-blazed Banker Trail, a doublewide trail. After 0.4 miles, turn right onto Cherry Ridge Trail. You’ll be on Cherry Ridge for 1.3 miles and then turn right onto Lauren Pond. This is where you’ll finish with the Blue Loop. The 7.75M loop has a bit of everything–doublewide mellow trails, rolling singletracks, boardwalks, and a bit of road. This loop has the most varied terrain for the entire course and arguably the most beautiful of the three loops.